‎When I was 21 years old,
‎I was sent to prison
‎in the Nonsan military training center
‎because I refused to serve in the military.
‎The soldier working
in the military prison came
‎and started to beat me,
and he beat me relentlessly.
‎It was late December 1975.
‎Four of the brothers were put
‎into standing solitary confinement cells
‎called dokgeochang.
‎It literally feels like you are in a coffin.
‎The outside temperature dropped
‎to minus 13 degrees Celsius (8°F),
‎and cold air seeped out from the wet walls.
‎The brothers couldn’t lay down to sleep,
so they had to crouch,
‎and I could hear them groaning all night.
‎I extended my hand through the iron bars
‎to the brother in the cell next to mine,
and he did the same.
‎We held hands
‎and encouraged each other to stay strong.
‎My health condition wasn’t really good
‎while serving my prison sentence.
‎I weighed about 47 kilograms (103 lbs),
‎and without my family’s support,
‎I was mentally and physically weak.
‎Under these extremely difficult circumstances,
‎there were times I wasn’t able to eat at all.
‎During those times,
the brothers provided me
‎with porridge
—which was easy to digest—
‎warm clothing,
and a sleeping bag for the winter.
‎I could really feel their love.
‎Having been sent to prison three times,
‎I truly feel that Jehovah showed interest in me
‎and took care of me
just as he promised at 1 Peter 5:7.
‎He especially supported me through my brothers
‎when I was facing difficulties.
‎A day in the prison started
‎with us eating breakfast
‎and then moving 300 bricks.
‎After lunch, we would have
to carry another 300 bricks.
‎Because I usually finished my work early,
‎I had a 20-minute break
before going back in.
‎However, this brother named Park Byung-Man
‎who was much stronger
and bigger than I was
‎carried bricks all day long.
‎I found out later that Park Byung-Man
‎was carrying Choi Sung-Kyu’s share
‎of bricks because of his frail health.
‎This kind of brotherly love really moved me
‎to start studying the Bible.
‎I got baptized a year later
‎in April of 1977 in the Anyang Prison.
‎After getting baptized,
‎my mother passed away,
‎and two months before being released,
‎my father passed away as well.
‎So that time was especially difficult for me.
‎But the brothers encouraged me
‎with their warm words and kind gestures.
‎Their encouragement really touched me
‎and helped me to endure until I was released.
‎One time, I had a severe stomachache.
‎The symptoms were not getting any better
‎with the medication I was given,
‎so I was having a very difficult time.
‎One day, we were served some vegetables
‎as a side dish
‎and one brother crushed
‎and squeezed the vegetables
to make juice for me.
‎He cared for me that way for several days.
‎I really would like to see that self-sacrificing
‎and loving brother once again.
‎At the time, none of our publications
‎other than the Bible were allowed into the prison.
‎Of course, that included our songbook.
‎The brothers memorized
‎the lyrics from the songbook,
‎and they would write them down.
‎Also, there were some songs
‎that were sung at the regional convention.
‎Songs like . . .
‎or
‎We sang them silently together
even in this isolated place.
‎It was a great source of encouragement
‎to share the love among our fellow brothers.
‎I remember this encouraging scripture
‎from 1 Corinthians 10:13.
‎It says that Jehovah
‘does not let us be tempted
‎‘beyond what we can bear
and will make the way out
‎so we may endure it.’
‎Although there were many challenges,
I was convinced
‎that Jehovah would always
‎make a way out through our fellow brothers.
‎Even though 40 years have passed,
‎when we look back at those days,
the memories are still fresh
‎and we are moved to tears at times.
‎So to make a meaningful trip
‎out of our 40 years of friendship,
‎all the friends who went through the same trials
‎decided to visit the headquarters
in the United States together.
‎It’s really refreshing to be here
with everyone again today.
‎It feels like I’m taking a field trip.
‎I was especially moved to tears
‎when I saw our old prison uniforms
‎there in the museum
‎at world headquarters
displayed in the neutrality section.
‎While on the tour, the brothers sat
‎and lay down on the floor
inside the dokgeochang
‎and we were able to reflect on the times
‎we spent together in prison.
‎Our gratitude to Jehovah
‎for giving us such loyal friends was renewed.